Caught up in the nature of the Brill Comb, there lied a strange figure with tools spread around.

"Oh... Hello, hello, hello."
"You've caught me in a rather unusual position."
"The majority of my time is spent not being stuck in such situations, for I would consider myself more of an 'outgoing individual'."

1. What do you do with all that time?
"I go outside. Have I not already stated that?"
"My explorations often grant me with knowledge that makes itself clear in my profession."

1A. What is your profession?
"Cartography, the art and science of mapping regions."

1B. What is this knowledge?
"Though it may not seem like it from overhead, this island's regions sprawl with distinct 'rooms'."
"When reading my maps, you may learn of the layout of these regions and their 'rooms'."

2. How can I help you?
"This entanglement is a more complex issue than it initially seems."
"What seems like a simple target for attacks could require a more complicated solution, so be observant in your exploration."

3. Why did you say "hello" three times?
"To make up for the time I've spent alone."

This Cartographer can be freed from the "natural" predicament through a mechanism found above his initial spot.

"I feel the need to collect myself...and with it, my work."
"For now, you can take this map of the surrounding area. Consider it a sampler of sorts."
For this, you are given the Basic Brill Comb Map.
1. Where could your other work be found?
"Across the island, of course."
"I once thought to spread my work across the island, both to fund further work and to keep the knowledge moving about."
"I work for the public, or what remains of it; in that manner, I would consider myself a demi-worker."
2. Let's work to find it together.
"And this investigative work could benefit us both: You obtain beneficial knowledge, and I get my work back."
3. Take all the time you need! I'll probably be here for a while.
"Thank you."

The next encounter with the Cartographer involves finding one of their makeshift shops. 

Brill Comb:
"Welcome! It's nice to see you again."

1. Is this a shop of yours?
"Indeed! It was a rather quick construction motivated by recent events."
"In truth, this region has been rather quiet with life."
2. What do you have in stock?
"Try my improved map; it offers a more detailed view of the area."
Options include the following:
Improved Brill Comb Map
Essential Memory of Swordsmanship
Essential Memory of Archery
Potion of Gradual Healing
Woodland Grub
3. What can I do in the area?
If the Trial of the Forest has not yet been completed:
"In trying to leave this area, I have found strange blockades."
"When I tried to climb these blockades as I normally would, they seemed to extend such that I could never truly get over them."
"Perhaps there is a reason for these blockades."
"I have marked the potential source on your map."
If the Trial has been completed:
"To the west, there lies a vast desert known as the Turbulent Whisper."
"As far as I am aware, this desert held and likely still holds a colony of "corvidesque" toures, and they may help you in your journey."
"However, there are, how do I put this... "accipitriformal" toures that watch over the surface of the desert."
"If you want to avoid their watching eye, you'd have to venture into the desert's caves and deal with the life within."
"To the east, there lies the Desolate Highlands."
"That place is much more...problematic, due to its high level of dangerous activity in recent times."
"Rest assured, the amount of dangerous activity ensures some kind of civilization."

* The cartographer, or "map-maker" as he is often called, is an odd figure.
* His job is cartography, which he carries out with passion. In various areas, he can be found selling maps.
* Given his knowledge on the Huinem and his status as a relic of the past, it's possible that he is a Huinem himself.

Turbulent Whisper:
"Welcome! Remember to stay hydrated."

2. What can I do in this area?
"Even if this desert looks plain, there's a lot hidden within its vastness."
"There are many towers strewn throughout these lands. Follow the ticking to find the greatest one of them all."
"If you're looking for something more historical, try exploring the underground ruins of the Sun Temple of Safety."
"There's also the Palm of Calmness, a Toure colony built on a great tree."
"Unfortunately, the river that used to run through these lands has dried up, leaving a canyon in its wake."
"I've been yelled at about a dam at the end of the canyon, and how we should 'let the water flow once more'."
3. The Turbulent Tower's front door is locked. How do I get in?
"Have you tried breaking the door down?"
3a. None of my weapons have worked.
"Then you may need a new weapon."
"You might be able to make use of a weapon designed to break through such barriers..."
3b. That seems like a pain for the workers to deal with.
"I appreciate your sense of concern for property, but many have ventured throughout this island before you, and quite a few of these explorers left destruction in their wake."
"If you are still willing to keep the door intact, you could try following the workers into the tower."
"The tower's security team may still threaten you if you keep the door intact, though."